Additional techniques Index compression A limitation in data structures that are built upon an array is that the elements are indexed using consecutive integers. Difﬁculties arise when large indices are needed. For example, if we wish to use the index 109, the array should contain 109 elements which would require too much memory. However, we can often bypass this limitation by using index compression, where the original indices are replaced with indices 1,2,3, etc. This can be done if we know all the indices needed during the algorithm beforehand. The idea is to replace each original index x with c(x) where c is a function that compresses the indices. We require that the order of the indices does not change, so if a < b, then c(a) < c(b). This allows us to conveniently perform queries even if the indices are compressed. For example, if the original indices are 555, 109 and 8, the new indices are: c(8) = c(555) = c(109) = Range updates So far, we have implemented data structures that support range queries and updates of single values. Let us now consider an opposite situation, where we should update ranges and retrieve single values. We focus on an operation that increases all elements in a range [a,b] by x. Surprisingly, we can use the data structures presented in this chapter also in this situation. To do this, we build a difference array whose values indicate the differences between consecutive values in the original array. Thus, the original array is the preﬁx sum array of the difference array. For example, consider the following array: The difference array for the above array is as follows: −2 −3 For example, the value 2 at position 6 in the original array corresponds to the sum 3−2+4−3 = 2 in the difference array. The advantage of the difference array is that we can update a range in the original array by changing just two elements in the difference array. For example, if we want to increase the original array values between positions 1 and 4 by 5, it sufﬁces to increase the difference array value at position 1 by 5 and decrease the value at position 5 by 5. The result is as follows:

−2 −1 −3 More generally, to increase the values in range [a,b] by x, we increase the value at position a by x and decrease the value at position b +1 by x. Thus, it is only needed to update single values and process sum queries, so we can use a binary indexed tree or a segment tree. A more difﬁcult problem is to support both range queries and range updates. In Chapter 28 we will see that even this is possible.