Constructing these arrays takes O(n) time. After this, the hash value of any substring s[a...b] can be calculated in O(1) time using the formula (h[b]−h[a−1]p[b −a+1]) mod B assuming that a > 0. If a = 0, the hash value is simply h[b]. Using hash values We can efﬁciently compare strings using hash values. Instead of comparing the individual characters of the strings, the idea is to compare their hash values. If the hash values are equal, the strings are probably equal, and if the hash values are different, the strings are certainly different. Using hashing, we can often make a brute force algorithm efﬁcient. As an example, consider the pattern matching problem: given a string s and a pattern p, ﬁnd the positions where p occurs in s. A brute force algorithm goes through all positions where p may occur and compares the strings character by character. The time complexity of such an algorithm is O(n2). We can make the brute force algorithm more efﬁcient by using hashing, because the algorithm compares substrings of strings. Using hashing, each comparison only takes O(1) time, because only hash values of substrings are compared. This results in an algorithm with time complexity O(n), which is the best possible time complexity for this problem. By combining hashing and binary search, it is also possible to ﬁnd out the lexicographic order of two strings in logarithmic time. This can be done by calculating the length of the common preﬁx of the strings using binary search. Once we know the length of the common preﬁx, we can just check the next character after the preﬁx, because this determines the order of the strings. Collisions and parameters An evident risk when comparing hash values is a collision, which means that two strings have different contents but equal hash values. In this case, an algorithm that relies on the hash values concludes that the strings are equal, but in reality they are not, and the algorithm may give incorrect results. Collisions are always possible, because the number of different strings is larger than the number of different hash values. However, the probability of a collision is small if the constants A and B are carefully chosen. A usual way is to choose random constants near 109, for example as follows: A = 911382323 B = 972663749 Using such constants, the long long type can be used when calculating hash values, because the products AB and BB will ﬁt in long long. But is it enough to have about 109 different hash values? Let us consider three scenarios where hashing can be used: