String algorithms This chapter deals with efﬁcient algorithms for string processing. Many string problems can be easily solved in O(n2) time, but the challenge is to ﬁnd algorithms that work in O(n) or O(nlogn) time. For example, a fundamental string processing problem is the pattern matching problem: given a string of length n and a pattern of length m, our task is to ﬁnd the occurrences of the pattern in the string. For example, the pattern ABC occurs two times in the string ABABCBABC. The pattern matching problem can be easily solved in O(nm) time by a brute force algorithm that tests all positions where the pattern may occur in the string. However, in this chapter, we will see that there are more efﬁcient algorithms that require only O(n+ m) time. String terminology Throughout the chapter, we assume that zero-based indexing is used in strings. Thus, a string s of length n consists of characters s[0],s[1],...,s[n−1]. The set of characters that may appear in strings is called an alphabet. For example, the alphabet {A,B,...,Z} consists of the capital letters of English. A substring is a sequence of consecutive characters in a string. We use the notation s[a...b] to refer to a substring of s that begins at position a and ends at position b. A string of length n has n(n +1)/2 substrings. For example, the substrings of ABCD are A, B, C, D, AB, BC, CD, ABC, BCD and ABCD. A subsequence is a sequence of (not necessarily consecutive) characters in a string in their original order. A string of length n has 2n −1 subsequences. For example, the subsequences of ABCD are A, B, C, D, AB, AC, AD, BC, BD, CD, ABC, ABD, ACD, BCD and ABCD. A preﬁx is a substring that starts at the beginning of a string, and a sufﬁx is a substring that ends at the end of a string. For example, the preﬁxes of ABCD are A, AB, ABC and ABCD, and the sufﬁxes of ABCD are D, CD, BCD and ABCD. A rotation can be generated by moving the characters of a string one by one from the beginning to the end (or vice versa). For example, the rotations of ABCD are ABCD, BCDA, CDAB and DABC.