A Las Vegas algorithm is a randomized algorithm that always gives the correct answer, but its running time varies randomly. The goal is to design an algorithm that is efﬁcient with high probability. Next we will go through three example problems that can be solved using randomness. Order statistics The kth order statistic of an array is the element at position k after sorting the array in increasing order. It is easy to calculate any order statistic in O(nlogn) time by ﬁrst sorting the array, but is it really needed to sort the entire array just to ﬁnd one element? It turns out that we can ﬁnd order statistics using a randomized algorithm without sorting the array. The algorithm, called quickselect1, is a Las Vegas algorithm: its running time is usually O(n) but O(n2) in the worst case. The algorithm chooses a random element x of the array, and moves elements smaller than x to the left part of the array, and all other elements to the right part of the array. This takes O(n) time when there are n elements. Assume that the left part contains a elements and the right part contains b elements. If a = k, element x is the kth order statistic. Otherwise, if a > k, we recursively ﬁnd the kth order statistic for the left part, and if a < k, we recursively ﬁnd the rth order statistic for the right part where r = k −a. The search continues in a similar way, until the element has been found. When each element x is randomly chosen, the size of the array about halves at each step, so the time complexity for ﬁnding the kth order statistic is about n+ n/2+ n/4+ n/8+··· < 2n = O(n). The worst case of the algorithm requires still O(n2) time, because it is possible that x is always chosen in such a way that it is one of the smallest or largest elements in the array and O(n) steps are needed. However, the probability for this is so small that this never happens in practice. Verifying matrix multiplication Our next problem is to verify if AB = C holds when A, B and C are matrices of size n × n. Of course, we can solve the problem by calculating the product AB again (in O(n3) time using the basic algorithm), but one could hope that verifying the answer would by easier than to calculate it from scratch. It turns out that we can solve the problem using a Monte Carlo algorithm2 whose time complexity is only O(n2). The idea is simple: we choose a random vector X of n elements, and calculate the matrices ABX and CX. If ABX = CX, we report that AB = C, and otherwise we report that AB ̸= C. 1In 1961, C. A. R. Hoare published two algorithms that are efﬁcient on average: quicksort [36] for sorting arrays and quickselect [37] for ﬁnding order statistics. 2R. M. Freivalds published this algorithm in 1977 [26], and it is sometimes called Freivalds’ algorithm.