SPFA algorithm The SPFA algorithm (”Shortest Path Faster Algorithm”) [20] is a variant of the Bellman–Ford algorithm, that is often more efﬁcient than the original algorithm. The SPFA algorithm does not go through all the edges on each round, but instead, it chooses the edges to be examined in a more intelligent way. The algorithm maintains a queue of nodes that might be used for reducing the distances. First, the algorithm adds the starting node x to the queue. Then, the algorithm always processes the ﬁrst node in the queue, and when an edge a →b reduces a distance, node b is added to the queue. The efﬁciency of the SPFA algorithm depends on the structure of the graph: the algorithm is often efﬁcient, but its worst case time complexity is still O(nm) and it is possible to create inputs that make the algorithm as slow as the original Bellman–Ford algorithm. Dijkstra’s algorithm Dijkstra’s algorithm2 ﬁnds shortest paths from the starting node to all nodes of the graph, like the Bellman–Ford algorithm. The beneﬁt of Dijsktra’s algorithm is that it is more efﬁcient and can be used for processing large graphs. However, the algorithm requires that there are no negative weight edges in the graph. Like the Bellman–Ford algorithm, Dijkstra’s algorithm maintains distances to the nodes and reduces them during the search. Dijkstra’s algorithm is efﬁcient, because it only processes each edge in the graph once, using the fact that there are no negative edges. Example Let us consider how Dijkstra’s algorithm works in the following graph when the starting node is node 1: ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ Like in the Bellman–Ford algorithm, initially the distance to the starting node is 0 and the distance to all other nodes is inﬁnite. At each step, Dijkstra’s algorithm selects a node that has not been processed yet and whose distance is as small as possible. The ﬁrst such node is node 1 with distance 0. 2E. W. Dijkstra published the algorithm in 1959 [14]; however, his original paper does not mention how to implement the algorithm efﬁciently.

When a node is selected, the algorithm goes through all edges that start at the node and reduces the distances using them: ∞ In this case, the edges from node 1 reduced the distances of nodes 2, 4 and 5, whose distances are now 5, 9 and 1. The next node to be processed is node 5 with distance 1. This reduces the distance to node 4 from 9 to 3: ∞ After this, the next node is node 4, which reduces the distance to node 3 to 9: A remarkable property in Dijkstra’s algorithm is that whenever a node is selected, its distance is ﬁnal. For example, at this point of the algorithm, the distances 0, 1 and 3 are the ﬁnal distances to nodes 1, 5 and 4. After this, the algorithm processes the two remaining nodes, and the ﬁnal distances are as follows: