The lower-right corner of the table tells us that the edit distance between LOVE and MOVIE is 2. The table also shows how to construct the shortest sequence of editing operations. In this case the path is as follows: L O V E M O V I E The last characters of LOVE and MOVIE are equal, so the edit distance between them equals the edit distance between LOV and MOVI. We can use one editing operation to remove the character I from MOVI. Thus, the edit distance is one larger than the edit distance between LOV and MOV, etc. Counting tilings Sometimes the states of a dynamic programming solution are more complex than ﬁxed combinations of numbers. As an example, consider the problem of calculating the number of distinct ways to ﬁll an n× m grid using 1×2 and 2×1 size tiles. For example, one valid solution for the 4×7 grid is and the total number of solutions is 781. The problem can be solved using dynamic programming by going through the grid row by row. Each row in a solution can be represented as a string that contains m characters from the set {⊓,⊔,⊏,⊐}. For example, the above solution consists of four rows that correspond to the following strings: • ⊓⊏⊐⊓⊏⊐⊓ • ⊔⊏⊐⊔⊓⊓⊔ • ⊏⊐⊏⊐⊔⊔⊓ • ⊏⊐⊏⊐⊏⊐⊔ Let count(k,x) denote the number of ways to construct a solution for rows 1...k of the grid such that string x corresponds to row k. It is possible to use dynamic programming here, because the state of a row is constrained only by the state of the previous row.

A solution is valid if row 1 does not contain the character ⊔, row n does not contain the character ⊓, and all consecutive rows are compatible. For example, the rows ⊔⊏⊐⊔⊓⊓⊔and ⊏⊐⊏⊐⊔⊔⊓are compatible, while the rows ⊓⊏⊐⊓⊏⊐⊓ and ⊏⊐⊏⊐⊏⊐⊔are not compatible. Since a row consists of m characters and there are four choices for each character, the number of distinct rows is at most 4m. Thus, the time complexity of the solution is O(n42m) because we can go through the O(4m) possible states for each row, and for each state, there are O(4m) possible states for the previous row. In practice, it is a good idea to rotate the grid so that the shorter side has length m, because the factor 42m dominates the time complexity. It is possible to make the solution more efﬁcient by using a more compact representation for the rows. It turns out that it is sufﬁcient to know which columns of the previous row contain the upper square of a vertical tile. Thus, we can represent a row using only characters ⊓and □, where □is a combination of characters ⊔, ⊏and ⊐. Using this representation, there are only 2m distinct rows and the time complexity is O(n22m). As a ﬁnal note, there is also a surprising direct formula for calculating the number of tilings2: ⌈n/2⌉ Y a=1 ⌈m/2⌉ Y b=1 4·(cos2 πa n+1 +cos2 πb m+1) This formula is very efﬁcient, because it calculates the number of tilings in O(nm) time, but since the answer is a product of real numbers, a problem when using the formula is how to store the intermediate results accurately. 2Surprisingly, this formula was discovered in 1961 by two research teams [43, 67] that worked independently.