However, we can combine the two algorithms and use different algorithms for different letters depending on how many times each letter appears in the grid. Assume that a letter c appears k times. If k ≤pn, we use Algorithm 1, and if k > pn, we use Algorithm 2. It turns out that by doing this, the total running time of the algorithm is only O(npn). First, suppose that we use Algorithm 1 for a letter c. Since c appears at most pn times in the grid, we compare each cell with letter c O(pn) times with other cells. Thus, the time used for processing all such cells is O(npn). Then, suppose that we use Algorithm 2 for a letter c. There are at most pn such letters, so processing those letters also takes O(npn) time. Batch processing Our next problem also deals with a two-dimensional grid that contains n cells. Initially, each cell except one is white. We perform n−1 operations, each of which ﬁrst calculates the minimum distance from a given white cell to a black cell, and then paints the white cell black. For example, consider the following operation: * First, we calculate the minimum distance from the white cell marked with * to a black cell. The minimum distance is 2, because we can move two steps left to a black cell. Then, we paint the white cell black: Consider the following two algorithms: Algorithm 1: Use breadth-ﬁrst search to calculate for each white cell the distance to the nearest black cell. This takes O(n) time, and after the search, we can ﬁnd the minimum distance from any white cell to a black cell in O(1) time. Algorithm 2: Maintain a list of cells that have been painted black, go through this list at each operation and then add a new cell to the list. An operation takes O(k) time where k is the length of the list. We combine the above algorithms by dividing the operations into O(pn) batches, each of which consists of O(pn) operations. At the beginning of each batch, we perform Algorithm 1. Then, we use Algorithm 2 to process the operations in the batch. We clear the list of Algorithm 2 between the batches. At each