If we create such a data structure for each node, we can easily process all given queries, because we can handle all queries related to a node immediately after creating its data structure. For example, the above map structure for node 4 tells us that its subtree contains two nodes whose value is 3. However, it would be too slow to create all data structures from scratch. Instead, at each node s, we create an initial data structure d[s] that only contains the value of s. After this, we go through the children of s and merge d[s] and all data structures d[u] where u is a child of s. For example, in the above tree, the map for node 4 is created by merging the following maps: Here the ﬁrst map is the initial data structure for node 4, and the other three maps correspond to nodes 7, 8 and 9. The merging at node s can be done as follows: We go through the children of s and at each child u merge d[s] and d[u]. We always copy the contents from d[u] to d[s]. However, before this, we swap the contents of d[s] and d[u] if d[s] is smaller than d[u]. By doing this, each value is copied only O(logn) times during the tree traversal, which ensures that the algorithm is efﬁcient. To swap the contents of two data structures a and b efﬁciently, we can just use the following code: swap(a,b); It is guaranteed that the above code works in constant time when a and b are C++ standard library data structures. Lowest common ancestors There is also an ofﬂine algorithm for processing a set of lowest common ancestor queries2. The algorithm is based on the union-ﬁnd data structure (see Chapter 15.2), and the beneﬁt of the algorithm is that it is easier to implement than the algorithms discussed earlier in this chapter. The algorithm is given as input a set of pairs of nodes, and it determines for each such pair the lowest common ancestor of the nodes. The algorithm performs a depth-ﬁrst tree traversal and maintains disjoint sets of nodes. Initially, each node belongs to a separate set. For each set, we also store the highest node in the tree that belongs to the set. When the algorithm visits a node x, it goes through all nodes y such that the lowest common ancestor of x and y has to be found. If y has already been visited, the algorithm reports that the lowest common ancestor of x and y is the highest node in the set of y. Then, after processing node x, the algorithm joins the sets of x and its parent. 2This algorithm was published by R. E. Tarjan in 1979 [65].

For example, suppose that we want to ﬁnd the lowest common ancestors of node pairs (5,8) and (2,7) in the following tree: In the following trees, gray nodes denote visited nodes and dashed groups of nodes belong to the same set. When the algorithm visits node 8, it notices that node 5 has been visited and the highest node in its set is 2. Thus, the lowest common ancestor of nodes 5 and 8 is 2: Later, when visiting node 7, the algorithm determines that the lowest common ancestor of nodes 2 and 7 is 1: