so only 15 bits are needed instead of 18 bits. Thus, thanks to a better code it was possible to save 3 bits in the compressed string. We require that no codeword is a preﬁx of another codeword. For example, it is not allowed that a code would contain both codewords 10 and 1011. The reason for this is that we want to be able to generate the original string from the compressed string. If a codeword could be a preﬁx of another codeword, this would not always be possible. For example, the following code is not valid: character codeword A B C 1011 D Using this code, it would not be possible to know if the compressed string 1011 corresponds to the string AB or the string C. Huﬀman coding Huffman coding2 is a greedy algorithm that constructs an optimal code for compressing a given string. The algorithm builds a binary tree based on the frequencies of the characters in the string, and each character’s codeword can be read by following a path from the root to the corresponding node. A move to the left corresponds to bit 0, and a move to the right corresponds to bit 1. Initially, each character of the string is represented by a node whose weight is the number of times the character occurs in the string. Then at each step two nodes with minimum weights are combined by creating a new node whose weight is the sum of the weights of the original nodes. The process continues until all nodes have been combined. Next we will see how Huffman coding creates the optimal code for the string AABACDACA. Initially, there are four nodes that correspond to the characters of the string: A B C D The node that represents character A has weight 5 because character A appears 5 times in the string. The other weights have been calculated in the same way. The ﬁrst step is to combine the nodes that correspond to characters B and D, both with weight 1. The result is: A C B D 2D. A. Huffman discovered this method when solving a university course assignment and published the algorithm in 1952 [40].

After this, the nodes with weight 2 are combined: A C B D Finally, the two remaining nodes are combined: A C B D Now all nodes are in the tree, so the code is ready. The following codewords can be read from the tree: character codeword A B C D