Since the number of single elements is O(pn) and the number of blocks is also O(pn), the sum query takes O(pn) time. The purpose of the block size pn is that it balances two things: the array is divided into pn blocks, each of which contains pn elements. In practice, it is not necessary to use the exact value of pn as a parameter, and instead we may use parameters k and n/k where k is different from pn. The optimal parameter depends on the problem and input. For example, if an algorithm often goes through the blocks but rarely inspects single elements inside the blocks, it may be a good idea to divide the array into k < pn blocks, each of which contains n/k > pn elements. Combining algorithms In this section we discuss two square root algorithms that are based on combining two algorithms into one algorithm. In both cases, we could use either of the algorithms without the other and solve the problem in O(n2) time. However, by combining the algorithms, the running time is only O(npn). Case processing Suppose that we are given a two-dimensional grid that contains n cells. Each cell is assigned a letter, and our task is to ﬁnd two cells with the same letter whose distance is minimum, where the distance between cells (x1, y1) and (x2, y2) is |x1 −x2|+|y1 −y2|. For example, consider the following grid: A B C A C D E F B A G B D F E A In this case, the minimum distance is 2 between the two ’E’ letters. We can solve the problem by considering each letter separately. Using this approach, the new problem is to calculate the minimum distance between two cells with a ﬁxed letter c. We focus on two algorithms for this: Algorithm 1: Go through all pairs of cells with letter c, and calculate the minimum distance between such cells. This will take O(k2) time where k is the number of cells with letter c. Algorithm 2: Perform a breadth-ﬁrst search that simultaneously starts at each cell with letter c. The minimum distance between two cells with letter c will be calculated in O(n) time. One way to solve the problem is to choose either of the algorithms and use it for all letters. If we use Algorithm 1, the running time is O(n2), because all cells may contain the same letter, and in this case k = n. Also if we use Algorithm 2, the running time is O(n2), because all cells may have different letters, and in this case n searches are needed.