A common property in these theorems and other results is that they guarantee the existence of a Hamiltonian path if the graph has a large number of edges. This makes sense, because the more edges the graph contains, the more possibilities there is to construct a Hamiltonian path. Construction Since there is no efﬁcient way to check if a Hamiltonian path exists, it is clear that there is also no method to efﬁciently construct the path, because otherwise we could just try to construct the path and see whether it exists. A simple way to search for a Hamiltonian path is to use a backtracking algorithm that goes through all possible ways to construct the path. The time complexity of such an algorithm is at least O(n!), because there are n! different ways to choose the order of n nodes. A more efﬁcient solution is based on dynamic programming (see Chapter 10.5). The idea is to calculate values of a function possible(S,x), where S is a subset of nodes and x is one of the nodes. The function indicates whether there is a Hamiltonian path that visits the nodes of S and ends at node x. It is possible to implement this solution in O(2nn2) time. De Bruijn sequences A De Bruijn sequence is a string that contains every string of length n exactly once as a substring, for a ﬁxed alphabet of k characters. The length of such a string is kn + n−1 characters. For example, when n = 3 and k = 2, an example of a De Bruijn sequence is 0001011100. The substrings of this string are all combinations of three bits: 000, 001, 010, 011, 100, 101, 110 and 111. It turns out that each De Bruijn sequence corresponds to an Eulerian path in a graph. The idea is to construct a graph where each node contains a string of n−1 characters and each edge adds one character to the string. The following graph corresponds to the above scenario: An Eulerian path in this graph corresponds to a string that contains all strings of length n. The string contains the characters of the starting node and all characters of the edges. The starting node has n−1 characters and there are kn characters in the edges, so the length of the string is kn + n−1.