Shortest paths Finding a shortest path between two nodes of a graph is an important problem that has many practical applications. For example, a natural problem related to a road network is to calculate the shortest possible length of a route between two cities, given the lengths of the roads. In an unweighted graph, the length of a path equals the number of its edges, and we can simply use breadth-ﬁrst search to ﬁnd a shortest path. However, in this chapter we focus on weighted graphs where more sophisticated algorithms are needed for ﬁnding shortest paths. Bellman–Ford algorithm The Bellman–Ford algorithm1 ﬁnds shortest paths from a starting node to all nodes of the graph. The algorithm can process all kinds of graphs, provided that the graph does not contain a cycle with negative length. If the graph contains a negative cycle, the algorithm can detect this. The algorithm keeps track of distances from the starting node to all nodes of the graph. Initially, the distance to the starting node is 0 and the distance to all other nodes in inﬁnite. The algorithm reduces the distances by ﬁnding edges that shorten the paths until it is not possible to reduce any distance. Example Let us consider how the Bellman–Ford algorithm works in the following graph: ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ 1The algorithm is named after R. E. Bellman and L. R. Ford who published it independently in 1958 and 1956, respectively [5, 24].

Each node of the graph is assigned a distance. Initially, the distance to the starting node is 0, and the distance to all other nodes is inﬁnite. The algorithm searches for edges that reduce distances. First, all edges from node 1 reduce distances: ∞ After this, edges 2 →5 and 3 →4 reduce distances: Finally, there is one more change: After this, no edge can reduce any distance. This means that the distances are ﬁnal, and we have successfully calculated the shortest distances from the starting node to all nodes of the graph. For example, the shortest distance 3 from node 1 to node 5 corresponds to the following path: