Then the left pointer moves one step to the right. The right pointer moves three steps to the left, and the sum becomes 4+7 = 11. After this, the left pointer moves one step to the right again. The right pointer does not move, and a solution 5+7 = 12 has been found. The running time of the algorithm is O(nlogn), because it ﬁrst sorts the array in O(nlogn) time, and then both pointers move O(n) steps. Note that it is possible to solve the problem in another way in O(nlogn) time using binary search. In such a solution, we iterate through the array and for each array value, we try to ﬁnd another value that yields the sum x. This can be done by performing n binary searches, each of which takes O(logn) time. A more difﬁcult problem is the 3SUM problem that asks to ﬁnd three array values whose sum is x. Using the idea of the above algorithm, this problem can be solved in O(n2) time1. Can you see how? Nearest smaller elements Amortized analysis is often used to estimate the number of operations performed on a data structure. The operations may be distributed unevenly so that most operations occur during a certain phase of the algorithm, but the total number of the operations is limited. As an example, consider the problem of ﬁnding for each array element the nearest smaller element, i.e., the ﬁrst smaller element that precedes the element in the array. It is possible that no such element exists, in which case the algorithm should report this. Next we will see how the problem can be efﬁciently solved using a stack structure. We go through the array from left to right and maintain a stack of array elements. At each array position, we remove elements from the stack until the top element is smaller than the current element, or the stack is empty. Then, we report that the top element is the nearest smaller element of the current element, or if the stack is empty, there is no such element. Finally, we add the current element to the stack. As an example, consider the following array: 1For a long time, it was thought that solving the 3SUM problem more efﬁciently than in O(n2) time would not be possible. However, in 2014, it turned out [30] that this is not the case.

First, the elements 1, 3 and 4 are added to the stack, because each element is larger than the previous element. Thus, the nearest smaller element of 4 is 3, and the nearest smaller element of 3 is 1. The next element 2 is smaller than the two top elements in the stack. Thus, the elements 3 and 4 are removed from the stack, and then the element 2 is added to the stack. Its nearest smaller element is 1: Then, the element 5 is larger than the element 2, so it will be added to the stack, and its nearest smaller element is 2: After this, the element 5 is removed from the stack and the elements 3 and 4 are added to the stack: Finally, all elements except 1 are removed from the stack and the last element 2 is added to the stack: The efﬁciency of the algorithm depends on the total number of stack operations. If the current element is larger than the top element in the stack, it is directly added to the stack, which is efﬁcient. However, sometimes the stack can contain several larger elements and it takes time to remove them. Still, each element is added exactly once to the stack and removed at most once from the stack. Thus, each element causes O(1) stack operations, and the algorithm works in O(n) time.