However, the formula L2 = (x1 ∨x2)∧(x1 ∨¬x2)∧(¬x1 ∨x3)∧(¬x1 ∨¬x3) is always false, regardless of how we assign the values. The reason for this is that we cannot choose a value for x1 without creating a contradiction. If x1 is false, both x2 and ¬x2 should be true which is impossible, and if x1 is true, both x3 and ¬x3 should be true which is also impossible. The 2SAT problem can be represented as a graph whose nodes correspond to variables xi and negations ¬xi, and edges determine the connections between the variables. Each pair (ai ∨bi) generates two edges: ¬ai →bi and ¬bi →ai. This means that if ai does not hold, bi must hold, and vice versa. The graph for the formula L1 is: ¬x3 x2 ¬x4 x1 ¬x1 x4 ¬x2 x3 And the graph for the formula L2 is: x3 x2 ¬x2 ¬x3 ¬x1 x1 The structure of the graph tells us whether it is possible to assign the values of the variables so that the formula is true. It turns out that this can be done exactly when there are no nodes xi and ¬xi such that both nodes belong to the same strongly connected component. If there are such nodes, the graph contains a path from xi to ¬xi and also a path from ¬xi to xi, so both xi and ¬xi should be true which is not possible. In the graph of the formula L1 there are no nodes xi and ¬xi such that both nodes belong to the same strongly connected component, so a solution exists. In the graph of the formula L2 all nodes belong to the same strongly connected component, so a solution does not exist. If a solution exists, the values for the variables can be found by going through the nodes of the component graph in a reverse topological sort order. At each step, we process a component that does not contain edges that lead to an unprocessed component. If the variables in the component have not been assigned values, their values will be determined according to the values in the component, and if

they already have values, they remain unchanged. The process continues until each variable has been assigned a value. The component graph for the formula L1 is as follows: A B C D The components are A = {¬x4}, B = {x1,x2,¬x3}, C = {¬x1,¬x2,x3} and D = {x4}. When constructing the solution, we ﬁrst process the component D where x4 becomes true. After this, we process the component C where x1 and x2 become false and x3 becomes true. All variables have been assigned values, so the remaining components A and B do not change the variables. Note that this method works, because the graph has a special structure: if there are paths from node xi to node xj and from node xj to node ¬xj, then node xi never becomes true. The reason for this is that there is also a path from node ¬xj to node ¬xi, and both xi and xj become false. A more difﬁcult problem is the 3SAT problem, where each part of the formula is of the form (ai ∨bi ∨ci). This problem is NP-hard, so no efﬁcient algorithm for solving the problem is known.