Introduction Competitive programming combines two topics: (1) the design of algorithms and (2) the implementation of algorithms. The design of algorithms consists of problem solving and mathematical thinking. Skills for analyzing problems and solving them creatively are needed. An algorithm for solving a problem has to be both correct and efﬁcient, and the core of the problem is often about inventing an efﬁcient algorithm. Theoretical knowledge of algorithms is important to competitive programmers. Typically, a solution to a problem is a combination of well-known techniques and new insights. The techniques that appear in competitive programming also form the basis for the scientiﬁc research of algorithms. The implementation of algorithms requires good programming skills. In competitive programming, the solutions are graded by testing an implemented algorithm using a set of test cases. Thus, it is not enough that the idea of the algorithm is correct, but the implementation also has to be correct. A good coding style in contests is straightforward and concise. Programs should be written quickly, because there is not much time available. Unlike in traditional software engineering, the programs are short (usually at most a few hundred lines of code), and they do not need to be maintained after the contest. Programming languages At the moment, the most popular programming languages used in contests are C++, Python and Java. For example, in Google Code Jam 2017, among the best 3,000 participants, 79 % used C++, 16 % used Python and 8 % used Java [29]. Some participants also used several languages. Many people think that C++ is the best choice for a competitive programmer, and C++ is nearly always available in contest systems. The beneﬁts of using C++ are that it is a very efﬁcient language and its standard library contains a large collection of data structures and algorithms. On the other hand, it is good to master several languages and understand their strengths. For example, if large integers are needed in the problem, Python can be a good choice, because it contains built-in operations for calculating with