operation, the minimum distance to a black cell is either the distance calculated by Algorithm 1 or the distance calculated by Algorithm 2. The resulting algorithm works in O(npn) time. First, Algorithm 1 is performed O(pn) times, and each search works in O(n) time. Second, when using Algorithm 2 in a batch, the list contains O(pn) cells (because we clear the list between the batches) and each operation takes O(pn) time. Integer partitions Some square root algorithms are based on the following observation: if a positive integer n is represented as a sum of positive integers, such a sum always contains at most O(pn) distinct numbers. The reason for this is that to construct a sum that contains a maximum number of distinct numbers, we should choose small numbers. If we choose the numbers 1,2,...,k, the resulting sum is k(k +1) . Thus, the maximum amount of distinct numbers is k = O(pn). Next we will discuss two problems that can be solved efﬁciently using this observation. Knapsack Suppose that we are given a list of integer weights whose sum is n. Our task is to ﬁnd out all sums that can be formed using a subset of the weights. For example, if the weights are {1,3,3}, the possible sums are as follows: • 0 (empty set) • 1 • 3 • 1+3 = 4 • 3+3 = 6 • 1+3+3 = 7 Using the standard knapsack approach (see Chapter 7.4), the problem can be solved as follows: we deﬁne a function possible(x,k) whose value is 1 if the sum x can be formed using the ﬁrst k weights, and 0 otherwise. Since the sum of the weights is n, there are at most n weights and all values of the function can be calculated in O(n2) time using dynamic programming. However, we can make the algorithm more efﬁcient by using the fact that there are at most O(pn) distinct weights. Thus, we can process the weights in groups that consists of similar weights. We can process each group in O(n) time, which yields an O(npn) time algorithm. The idea is to use an array that records the sums of weights that can be formed using the groups processed so far. The array contains n elements: element k is 1 if the sum k can be formed and 0 otherwise. To process a group of weights, we scan the array from left to right and record the new sums of weights that can be formed using this group and the previous groups.