Amortized analysis The time complexity of an algorithm is often easy to analyze just by examining the structure of the algorithm: what loops does the algorithm contain and how many times the loops are performed. However, sometimes a straightforward analysis does not give a true picture of the efﬁciency of the algorithm. Amortized analysis can be used to analyze algorithms that contain operations whose time complexity varies. The idea is to estimate the total time used to all such operations during the execution of the algorithm, instead of focusing on individual operations. Two pointers method In the two pointers method, two pointers are used to iterate through the array values. Both pointers can move to one direction only, which ensures that the algorithm works efﬁciently. Next we discuss two problems that can be solved using the two pointers method. Subarray sum As the ﬁrst example, consider a problem where we are given an array of n positive integers and a target sum x, and we want to ﬁnd a subarray whose sum is x or report that there is no such subarray. For example, the array contains a subarray whose sum is 8: This problem can be solved in O(n) time by using the two pointers method. The idea is to maintain pointers that point to the ﬁrst and last value of a subarray. On each turn, the left pointer moves one step to the right, and the right pointer moves to the right as long as the resulting subarray sum is at most x. If the sum becomes exactly x, a solution has been found.

As an example, consider the following array and a target sum x = 8: The initial subarray contains the values 1, 3 and 2 whose sum is 6: Then, the left pointer moves one step to the right. The right pointer does not move, because otherwise the subarray sum would exceed x. Again, the left pointer moves one step to the right, and this time the right pointer moves three steps to the right. The subarray sum is 2+5+1 = 8, so a subarray whose sum is x has been found. The running time of the algorithm depends on the number of steps the right pointer moves. While there is no useful upper bound on how many steps the pointer can move on a single turn. we know that the pointer moves a total of O(n) steps during the algorithm, because it only moves to the right. Since both the left and right pointer move O(n) steps during the algorithm, the algorithm works in O(n) time. 2SUM problem Another problem that can be solved using the two pointers method is the following problem, also known as the 2SUM problem: given an array of n numbers and a target sum x, ﬁnd two array values such that their sum is x, or report that no such values exist. To solve the problem, we ﬁrst sort the array values in increasing order. After that, we iterate through the array using two pointers. The left pointer starts at the ﬁrst value and moves one step to the right on each turn. The right pointer begins at the last value and always moves to the left until the sum of the left and right value is at most x. If the sum is exactly x, a solution has been found. For example, consider the following array and a target sum x = 12: The initial positions of the pointers are as follows. The sum of the values is 1+10 = 11 that is smaller than x.