each point, we ﬁnd the nearest point to the left. If the distance is less than d, it is the new minimum distance and we update the value of d. If the current point is (x, y) and there is a point to the left within a distance of less than d, the x coordinate of such a point must be between [x−d,x] and the y coordinate must be between [y−d, y+ d]. Thus, it sufﬁces to only consider points that are located in those ranges, which makes the algorithm efﬁcient. For example, in the following picture, the region marked with dashed lines contains the points that can be within a distance of d from the active point: d d The efﬁciency of the algorithm is based on the fact that the region always contains only O(1) points. We can go through those points in O(logn) time by maintaining a set of points whose x coordinate is between [x−d,x], in increasing order according to their y coordinates. The time complexity of the algorithm is O(nlogn), because we go through n points and ﬁnd for each point the nearest point to the left in O(logn) time. Convex hull problem A convex hull is the smallest convex polygon that contains all points of a given set. Convexity means that a line segment between any two vertices of the polygon is completely inside the polygon. For example, for the points the convex hull is as follows:

Andrew’s algorithm [3] provides an easy way to construct the convex hull for a set of points in O(nlogn) time. The algorithm ﬁrst locates the leftmost and rightmost points, and then constructs the convex hull in two parts: ﬁrst the upper hull and then the lower hull. Both parts are similar, so we can focus on constructing the upper hull. First, we sort the points primarily according to x coordinates and secondarily according to y coordinates. After this, we go through the points and add each point to the hull. Always after adding a point to the hull, we make sure that the last line segment in the hull does not turn left. As long as it turns left, we repeatedly remove the second last point from the hull. The following pictures show how Andrew’s algorithm works: