and using this, it is possible to calculate logarithms to any base if there is a way to calculate logarithms to some ﬁxed base. The natural logarithm ln(x) of a number x is a logarithm whose base is e ≈2.71828. Another property of logarithms is that the number of digits of an integer x in base b is ⌊logb(x)+1⌋. For example, the representation of 123 in base 2 is 1111011 and ⌊log2(123)+1⌋= 7. Contests and resources IOI The International Olympiad in Informatics (IOI) is an annual programming contest for secondary school students. Each country is allowed to send a team of four students to the contest. There are usually about 300 participants from 80 countries. The IOI consists of two ﬁve-hour long contests. In both contests, the participants are asked to solve three algorithm tasks of various difﬁculty. The tasks are divided into subtasks, each of which has an assigned score. Even if the contestants are divided into teams, they compete as individuals. The IOI syllabus [41] regulates the topics that may appear in IOI tasks. Almost all the topics in the IOI syllabus are covered by this book. Participants for the IOI are selected through national contests. Before the IOI, many regional contests are organized, such as the Baltic Olympiad in Informatics (BOI), the Central European Olympiad in Informatics (CEOI) and the Asia-Paciﬁc Informatics Olympiad (APIO). Some countries organize online practice contests for future IOI participants, such as the Croatian Open Competition in Informatics [11] and the USA Computing Olympiad [68]. In addition, a large collection of problems from Polish contests is available online [60]. ICPC The International Collegiate Programming Contest (ICPC) is an annual programming contest for university students. Each team in the contest consists of three students, and unlike in the IOI, the students work together; there is only one computer available for each team. The ICPC consists of several stages, and ﬁnally the best teams are invited to the World Finals. While there are tens of thousands of participants in the contest, there are only a small number2 of ﬁnal slots available, so even advancing to the ﬁnals is a great achievement in some regions. In each ICPC contest, the teams have ﬁve hours of time to solve about ten algorithm problems. A solution to a problem is accepted only if it solves all test cases efﬁciently. During the contest, competitors may view the results of other 2The exact number of ﬁnal slots varies from year to year; in 2017, there were 133 ﬁnal slots.