In a similar way, a maximum spanning tree is a spanning tree whose weight is as large as possible. The weight of a maximum spanning tree for the example graph is 32: Note that a graph may have several minimum and maximum spanning trees, so the trees are not unique. It turns out that several greedy methods can be used to construct minimum and maximum spanning trees. In this chapter, we discuss two algorithms that process the edges of the graph ordered by their weights. We focus on ﬁnding minimum spanning trees, but the same algorithms can ﬁnd maximum spanning trees by processing the edges in reverse order. Kruskal’s algorithm In Kruskal’s algorithm1, the initial spanning tree only contains the nodes of the graph and does not contain any edges. Then the algorithm goes through the edges ordered by their weights, and always adds an edge to the tree if it does not create a cycle. The algorithm maintains the components of the tree. Initially, each node of the graph belongs to a separate component. Always when an edge is added to the tree, two components are joined. Finally, all nodes belong to the same component, and a minimum spanning tree has been found. Example Let us consider how Kruskal’s algorithm processes the following graph: The ﬁrst step of the algorithm is to sort the edges in increasing order of their weights. The result is the following list: 1The algorithm was published in 1956 by J. B. Kruskal [48].

edge weight 5–6 1–2 3–6 1–5 2–3 2–5 4–6 3–4 After this, the algorithm goes through the list and adds each edge to the tree if it joins two separate components. Initially, each node is in its own component: The ﬁrst edge to be added to the tree is the edge 5–6 that creates a component {5,6} by joining the components {5} and {6}: After this, the edges 1–2, 3–6 and 1–5 are added in a similar way: After those steps, most components have been joined and there are two components in the tree: {1,2,3,5,6} and {4}. The next edge in the list is the edge 2–3, but it will not be included in the tree, because nodes 2 and 3 are already in the same component. For the same reason, the edge 2–5 will not be included in the tree.

Finally, the edge 4–6 will be included in the tree: After this, the algorithm will not add any new edges, because the graph is connected and there is a path between any two nodes. The resulting graph is a minimum spanning tree with weight 2+3+3+5+7 = 20. Why does this work? It is a good question why Kruskal’s algorithm works. Why does the greedy strategy guarantee that we will ﬁnd a minimum spanning tree? Let us see what happens if the minimum weight edge of the graph is not included in the spanning tree. For example, suppose that a spanning tree for the previous graph would not contain the minimum weight edge 5–6. We do not know the exact structure of such a spanning tree, but in any case it has to contain some edges. Assume that the tree would be as follows: However, it is not possible that the above tree would be a minimum spanning tree for the graph. The reason for this is that we can remove an edge from the tree and replace it with the minimum weight edge 5–6. This produces a spanning tree whose weight is smaller: For this reason, it is always optimal to include the minimum weight edge in the tree to produce a minimum spanning tree. Using a similar argument, we can show that it is also optimal to add the next edge in weight order to the tree, and so on. Hence, Kruskal’s algorithm works correctly and always produces a minimum spanning tree.