Estimating efﬁciency By calculating the time complexity of an algorithm, it is possible to check, before implementing the algorithm, that it is efﬁcient enough for the problem. The starting point for estimations is the fact that a modern computer can perform some hundreds of millions of operations in a second. For example, assume that the time limit for a problem is one second and the input size is n = 105. If the time complexity is O(n2), the algorithm will perform about (105)2 = 1010 operations. This should take at least some tens of seconds, so the algorithm seems to be too slow for solving the problem. On the other hand, given the input size, we can try to guess the required time complexity of the algorithm that solves the problem. The following table contains some useful estimates assuming a time limit of one second. input size required time complexity n ≤10 O(n!) n ≤20 O(2n) n ≤500 O(n3) n ≤5000 O(n2) n ≤106 O(nlogn) or O(n) n is large O(1) or O(logn) For example, if the input size is n = 105, it is probably expected that the time complexity of the algorithm is O(n) or O(nlogn). This information makes it easier to design the algorithm, because it rules out approaches that would yield an algorithm with a worse time complexity. Still, it is important to remember that a time complexity is only an estimate of efﬁciency, because it hides the constant factors. For example, an algorithm that runs in O(n) time may perform n/2 or 5n operations. This has an important effect on the actual running time of the algorithm. Maximum subarray sum There are often several possible algorithms for solving a problem such that their time complexities are different. This section discusses a classic problem that has a straightforward O(n3) solution. However, by designing a better algorithm, it is possible to solve the problem in O(n2) time and even in O(n) time. Given an array of n numbers, our task is to calculate the maximum subarray sum, i.e., the largest possible sum of a sequence of consecutive values in the array2. The problem is interesting when there may be negative values in the array. For example, in the array −1 −3 −5 2J. Bentley’s book Programming Pearls [8] made the problem popular.