Note that the priority queue contains negative distances to nodes. The reason for this is that the default version of the C++ priority queue ﬁnds maximum elements, while we want to ﬁnd minimum elements. By using negative distances, we can directly use the default priority queue3. Also note that there may be several instances of the same node in the priority queue; however, only the instance with the minimum distance will be processed. The time complexity of the above implementation is O(n+ mlogm), because the algorithm goes through all nodes of the graph and adds for each edge at most one distance to the priority queue. Floyd–Warshall algorithm The Floyd–Warshall algorithm4 provides an alternative way to approach the problem of ﬁnding shortest paths. Unlike the other algorithms of this chapter, it ﬁnds all shortest paths between the nodes in a single run. The algorithm maintains a two-dimensional array that contains distances between the nodes. First, distances are calculated only using direct edges between the nodes, and after this, the algorithm reduces distances by using intermediate nodes in paths. Example Let us consider how the Floyd–Warshall algorithm works in the following graph: Initially, the distance from each node to itself is 0, and the distance between nodes a and b is x if there is an edge between nodes a and b with weight x. All other distances are inﬁnite. In this graph, the initial array is as follows: ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ 3Of course, we could also declare the priority queue as in Chapter 4.5 and use positive distances, but the implementation would be a bit longer. 4The algorithm is named after R. W. Floyd and S. Warshall who published it independently in 1962 [23, 70].

The algorithm consists of consecutive rounds. On each round, the algorithm selects a new node that can act as an intermediate node in paths from now on, and distances are reduced using this node. On the ﬁrst round, node 1 is the new intermediate node. There is a new path between nodes 2 and 4 with length 14, because node 1 connects them. There is also a new path between nodes 2 and 5 with length 6. ∞ ∞ ∞ ∞ On the second round, node 2 is the new intermediate node. This creates new paths between nodes 1 and 3 and between nodes 3 and 5: On the third round, node 3 is the new intermediate round. There is a new path between nodes 2 and 4: The algorithm continues like this, until all nodes have been appointed intermediate nodes. After the algorithm has ﬁnished, the array contains the minimum distances between any two nodes: For example, the array tells us that the shortest distance between nodes 2 and 4 is 8. This corresponds to the following path: