The notation v/k means that a ﬂow of v units is routed through an edge whose capacity is k units. The size of the ﬂow is 7, because the source sends 3+4 units of ﬂow and the sink receives 5+2 units of ﬂow. It is easy see that this ﬂow is maximum, because the total capacity of the edges leading to the sink is 7. Minimum cut In the minimum cut problem, our task is to remove a set of edges from the graph such that there will be no path from the source to the sink after the removal and the total weight of the removed edges is minimum. The minimum size of a cut in the example graph is 7. It sufﬁces to remove the edges 2 →3 and 4 →5: After removing the edges, there will be no path from the source to the sink. The size of the cut is 7, because the weights of the removed edges are 6 and 1. The cut is minimum, because there is no valid way to remove edges from the graph such that their total weight would be less than 7. It is not a coincidence that the maximum size of a ﬂow and the minimum size of a cut are the same in the above example. It turns out that a maximum ﬂow and a minimum cut are always equally large, so the concepts are two sides of the same coin. Next we will discuss the Ford–Fulkerson algorithm that can be used to ﬁnd the maximum ﬂow and minimum cut of a graph. The algorithm also helps us to understand why they are equally large. Ford–Fulkerson algorithm The Ford–Fulkerson algorithm [25] ﬁnds the maximum ﬂow in a graph. The algorithm begins with an empty ﬂow, and at each step ﬁnds a path from the source to the sink that generates more ﬂow. Finally, when the algorithm cannot increase the ﬂow anymore, the maximum ﬂow has been found. The algorithm uses a special representation of the graph where each original edge has a reverse edge in another direction. The weight of each edge indicates how much more ﬂow we could route through it. At the beginning of the algorithm, the weight of each original edge equals the capacity of the edge and the weight of each reverse edge is zero.