• in one node, the indegree is one larger than the outdegree, in another node, the outdegree is one larger than the indegree, and in all other nodes, the indegree equals the outdegree. In the ﬁrst case, each Eulerian path is also an Eulerian circuit, and in the second case, the graph contains an Eulerian path that begins at the node whose outdegree is larger and ends at the node whose indegree is larger. For example, in the graph nodes 1, 3 and 4 have both indegree 1 and outdegree 1, node 2 has indegree 1 and outdegree 2, and node 5 has indegree 2 and outdegree 1. Hence, the graph contains an Eulerian path from node 2 to node 5: 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. Hierholzer’s algorithm Hierholzer’s algorithm2 is an efﬁcient method for constructing an Eulerian circuit. The algorithm consists of several rounds, each of which adds new edges to the circuit. Of course, we assume that the graph contains an Eulerian circuit; otherwise Hierholzer’s algorithm cannot ﬁnd it. First, the algorithm constructs a circuit that contains some (not necessarily all) of the edges of the graph. After this, the algorithm extends the circuit step by step by adding subcircuits to it. The process continues until all edges have been added to the circuit. The algorithm extends the circuit by always ﬁnding a node x that belongs to the circuit but has an outgoing edge that is not included in the circuit. The algorithm constructs a new path from node x that only contains edges that are not yet in the circuit. Sooner or later, the path will return to node x, which creates a subcircuit. If the graph only contains an Eulerian path, we can still use Hierholzer’s algorithm to ﬁnd it by adding an extra edge to the graph and removing the edge after the circuit has been constructed. For example, in an undirected graph, we add the extra edge between the two odd-degree nodes. Next we will see how Hierholzer’s algorithm constructs an Eulerian circuit for an undirected graph. 2The algorithm was published in 1873 after Hierholzer’s death [35].